### **1. Present simple or present continuous?**
Fill in the blanks with the correct tense of the verbs in brackets.

1. **What do you think** (you/think) of the latest Bond movie?
2. **Shh! Don’t disturb Sam. He is reading** (read) a thriller.
3. **I don’t understand** (not/understand) the plot of this film. The hero **flies** (fly) across the world and **goes** (go) through all sorts of danger to find the woman he loves. But when he **finds** (find) her, he **decides** (decide) he **won’t forgive** (not/forgive) her!
4. **I’m thinking** (think) of buying a video. Which would you recommend?
5. My brother **is training** (train) to be an actor.
6. That art exhibition **sounds** (sound) really good.
7. My sister annoys me because she **is always talking** (always/talk) about herself!
8. **How do you feel** (you/feel) about horror movies?
9. My favourite group **is appearing** (appear) at a local theatre tonight.
10. I **am working** (work) in a theatre for a month as part of my college course.

---

### **2. Adverbs of frequency**
Rewriting sentences to include the adverb of frequency in the correct position:

1. I often play the drums in a local band.
2. I have never been to a film studio before.
3. I’ve got a video, but I don’t usually enjoy watching it.
4. My sister has always wanted to be an actress.
5. We go regularly to the theatre, but we go now and again to the cinema.а
6. They don’t usually show rock concerts on television.
7. I have never seen a horror movie before.
8. My brother always complains about TV programs, but he still watches them!

---

### **3. Will or present continuous?**
Underline the correct tense from the options given.

1. My favourite rock group **will come** to town next week.
2. Oh no! There’s a great film on TV tonight and we’ll miss it!
3. **Never mind, I’m videoing it for you!**
4. Look, he’s a well-known actor! Am I asking him for his autograph?
5. I don’t feel very well today. I **don’t think I’m going** to the theatre after all!
6. I’ve promised him I’ll get tickets for a musical for his birthday.
7. **Look! They’re showing Titanic** on TV tonight!
8. Are they? In that case, I think **I’m staying**!

---

### **4. Will or going to?**
Put the verbs in brackets into the correct form.

1. Look at the clouds! It **is going to rain** (rain).
2. Tomorrow, it’s all arranged. I **am visiting** (visit) a film studio.
3. I **must phone** (must/phone) the theatre and book some tickets.
4. I **am going to do** (do) that for you, shall I?
5. School **is going to be** (be) an actor when he grows up.
6. Don’t worry about getting to the theatre tomorrow. I’ll drive you if you like!

---

### **5. Transformations**
Complete the second sentence using the word given.

1. I think John will definitely win the competition.  
	**John is bound to win the competition.**

2. The band is just going to start playing.  
	**The band is about to start playing.**

3. A well-known actor will probably play the hero in the film.  
	**A well-known actor is likely to play the hero in the film.**

4. We’re arranged to meet outside the cinema.  
	**We are going to meet outside the cinema.**

5. I lose things all the time, which is really irritating!  
	**I am always losing things, which is really irritating!**

6. The concert should start at 8.30 p.m., according to the schedule.  
	**The concert is due to start at 8.30 p.m.**

7. We probably won’t finish our work until tomorrow.  
	**We are unlikely to finish our work until tomorrow.**

8. I’m sure they’ll enjoy the concert.  
	**They will certainly enjoy the concert.**

9. The film is unlikely to be a success.  
	**The film will probably not be a success.**

10. You are bound to get seats if you book in advance.  
	**You will certainly get seats if you book in advance.**

---
# Class Work
## Vocabulary
### 1. Word formation
1. The book was full of wonderful, color **illustrations**.
2. The art gallery is under new **management**.
3. He's a millionaire and he owns a huge **collection** of paintings.
4. Thieves destroyed the sculpture without any **thoughts** of its value.
5. We had a long **discussion** about modern art.
6. I see you've decorated your room - I really like your **choise** of posters
7. I went to an art **exhibition** in the Town Hall.
8. I have no **intention** of studying Art next year.

---
### 2. Verb+noun collocations
1. I think I’ll **join** the Art Club they’ve started in school. I really enjoy painting.
2. It will ***take*** some time to get the studio ready for the show.
3. The teacher tried to **offer** Marco some advice on his painting technique but he wouldn’t listen.
4. I’ve won a painting competition but I haven’t told anyone yet – can you **keep** it a secret for now?
5. It was difficult to move the sculpture but they managed to *solve* the problem by getting a crane to lift it.

---
## Vocabulary and Use of English
### 1. **Phrasal verbs with get**
1. How are you **getting on with** your painting?
2. Maria still hasn't **got over** competition.
3. The thieves **get away with** some very valuable paintings.
4. We've got an at class this afternoon but I'm going to try **get out of** it
5. The art teacher is always **getting over** me
6. I'm so busy - I never have time to **get at** doing any of my hobbies

**Hometask:** [[English 25_11_2024|wb p.6-7]]
