# WorkBook
### **1. Present perfect or past simple?**  

1. I **have always been** (always/be) interested in the history of the cinema.  
2. Last year, I **acted** (act) in several school plays.  
3. That play **has just opened** (just/open). Shall we go and see it?  
4. How many times **have you watched** (you/watch) the video before you **gave** (give) it back?  
5. I’d love to be an actor, but so far I **have never had** (never/have) the chance to appear on stage.  
6. *Hamlet* is the most difficult play I **have ever read** (ever/read).  

---

### **2. Present perfect simple or continuous?**  

1. We **have been rehearsing** for six months and we’re still not ready!  
2. Carlos is only 16 and he **has already starred** in ten major films.  
3. That film studio **has just closed**.  
4. Look at the queue outside the theatre! Those people **have been waiting** for hours!  
5. That producer **has just won** two Oscars for his latest film.  
6. I’m exhausted! We **have been filming** since six o’clock this morning and we’re still not finished.  

---

### **3. Correct the mistakes**  

1. Last week I **phoned** the theatre to book tickets.  
2. **We have painted** all the scenery, and now we’re going to have a break.  
3. The actress **has been filming** a new movie all week.

---

### **4. Transformations**  

1. The actress began working in television in 1999. *(been)*  
   **The actress has been working in television since 1999.**  

2. How long have you been training to be a dancer? *(start)*  
   **When did you start training to be a dancer?**  

3. The play only started a couple of minutes ago so we haven’t missed much. *(just)*  
   **The play has just started so we haven’t missed much.**  

4. The ballet company are just finishing a six-month tour. *(for)*  
   **The ballet company have been touring for six months.**  

5. The actors started rehearsing two months ago. *(been)*  
   **The actors have been rehearsing for two months.**  

6. It’s almost a year since I last went to the cinema. *(for)*  
   **I haven’t been to the cinema for almost a year.**  

7. I have never seen such a terrible film before. *(ever)*  
   **This is the worst film I have ever seen.**  

8. Tom has never acted in public before. *(first)*  
   **This is the first time Tom has acted in public.**  

9. The theatre was last used a year ago. *(for)*  
   **The theatre hasn’t been used for a year.**  

10. The theatre first became important in ancient times. *(since)*  
   **The theatre has been important since ancient times.**  

