Note for grammar file 5 p.178, p.6 ex.3

# Note File 5: Future tenses
1. Future simple: will + bare infinitive
	We use the future simple:
		- for predictions about the future when there is no present evidence, often with believe, think, expect, etc.: What do you think life will b e like in the future?
		- for decisions and offers made at the time of speaking: Don't worry about the washing-up. I'll do it!
		- for promises, threats, offers, requests: / won't forget, I promise. / I'll never speak to you again! / We'll help you with your homework. / Will you lend me your car?
2. going to
	We use going to:
	- to predict events from present evidence: Look at those clouds! will It's going to rain.
	- for plans and intentions: will buy l'm going to buy a new computer next month.
3. Present continuous
	We use the present continuous:
	- for definite future arrangements: My brother is starting university in September. He's just received all the details.
4. Present simple
	We use the present simple:
	- for timetables and scheduled events: The train leaves at 6.25 tomorrow morning.
	- after words/phrases like as soon as, before, until, when, while: I'll call you as soon as / wilt get home.
5. Future continuous: will be + -ing
	We use the future continuous:
	- for actions in progress at a future time: I'll be lying on a **beach** this **time** tomorrow.
	- to talk about planned future actions: Will you be going to the meeting tomorrow? (= polite)
	- for actions which are routine: Will you be spending your holidays at the seaside as usual this year?
6. Future perfect: will have + past participle
	We use the future perfect:
	- for actions completed before a point in the future: We will have finished this book by the summer.
	- We use the future perfect continuous (will have been +-ing) to focus on the duration of an action: By the time I take my exam, I will have been learning English for six years.
7. due to
	We use be due to + infinitive:
	- for timetabled/scheduled future events: The plane is due to take off in 10 minutes.
8. be about to
	We use be about to + infinitive:
	- for actions that will happen in the immediate future: The train is about to leave.